---
Layout:
Title: "SASS"
Date: "2022 04 21"
---

# Introduction
Today I was busy with SASS,I did manage to finish all the challenges on SASS

# Body
In SASS we have maxins which is a group of css declarations that can be reused throughout the style sheet.Mixins are like functions for css.Here is how to write one:

@mixin box-shadow($x, $y, $blur, $c){ 
  -webkit-box-shadow: $x $y $blur $c;
  -moz-box-shadow: $x $y $blur $c;
  -ms-box-shadow: $x $y $blur $c;
  box-shadow: $x $y $blur $c;
} .
The definition starts with @mixin followed by a custom name. The parameters (the $x, $y, $blur, and $c in the example above) are optional. Now any time a box-shadow rule is needed, only a single line calling the mixin replaces having to type all the vendor prefixes.A mixin is called with the @include directive:

div {
  @include box-shadow(0px, 0px, 4px, #fff);
}

Use @if and @else to Add Logic To Your Styles,the @if directive is useful to test for a specific case
e.g Create a mixin called border-stroke that takes a parameter $val. The mixin should check for the following conditions using @if, @else if, and @else:

light - 1px solid black
medium - 3px solid black
heavy - 6px solid black
If $val is not light, medium, or heavy, the border should be set to none :

<style type='text/scss'>

@mixin border-stroke($val) {

  @if $val == light {
  
    border: 1px solid black;
    
  }
  
  @else if $val == medium {
  
    border: 3px solid black;
    
  }
  
  @else if $val == heavy {
  
    border: 6px solid black;
    
  }
  
  @else {
  
    border: none;
    
  }
  
}
</style>


We use @for to create a sass loop,@for adds styles in a loop.@for is used in two ways (start through end or start to end.Start to end excludes the end number as part of the count and start through end includes the end number as part of the count .

e.g Write a @for directive that takes a variable $j that goes from 1 to 6.
It should create 5 classes called .text-1 to .text-5 where each has a font-size set to 15px multiplied by the index :

<style type='text/scss'>

@for $j from 1 through 6 {

.text-1 {
  font-size: 15px;
}

.text-2 {
  font-size: 30px;
}

.text-3 {
  font-size: 45px;
}

.text-4 {
  font-size: 60px;
}

.text-5 {
  font-size: 75px;
}
}
</style>


Sass also offers the @each directive which loops over each item in a list or map. On each iteration, the variable gets assigned to the current value from the list or map.
e.g  <style type='text/scss'>

@each $color in blue, black, red {

.blue-bg {

background-color: blue;
}

.black-bg {

  background-color: black;
}

.red-bg {

  background-color: red;
}

}

</style>

The @while directive creates CSS rules until a condition is met.$x: 1;
@while $x < 13 {
  .col-#{$x} { width: 100%/12 * $x;}
  $x: $x + 1;
}
First, define a variable $x and set it to 1. Next, use the @while directive to create the grid system while $x is less than 13. After setting the CSS rule for width, $x is incremented by 1 to avoid an infinite loop.


e.g
 <style type='text/scss'>
 
 $i: 1;
 
@while $i < 13 {

.text-1 {
font-size: 15px;
}

.text-2 {
font-size: 30px;
}

.text-3 {
font-size: 45px;
}

.text-4 {
font-size: 60px;
}

.text-5 {
font-size: 75px;
}

$i: $i +1;
}

</style>


Partials in Sass are separate files that hold segments of CSS code. These are imported and used in other Sass files. This is a great way to group similar code into a module to keep it organized.Names for partials start with the underscore (_) character, which tells Sass it is a small segment of CSS and not to convert it into a CSS file. Also, Sass files end with the .scss file extension. To bring the code in the partial into another Sass file, use the @import directive.

If all your mixins are saved in a partial named "_mixins.scss", and they are needed in the "main.scss" file, this is how to use them in the main file:

@import 'mixins'

Note that the underscore and file extension are not needed in the import statement - Sass understands it is a partial. Once a partial is imported into a file, all variables, mixins, and other code are available to use.

There is also a feature called extend that makes it easy to borrow the css rules from one element and build upon them in another.
For an example the below block of CSS rules style a .panel class. It has a background-color, height and border.

.panel{

  background-color: red;
  
  height: 70px;
  
  border: 2px solid green;
  
}
Now you want another panel called .big-panel. It has the same base properties as .panel, but also needs a width and font-size. It's possible to copy and paste the initial CSS rules from .panel, but the code becomes repetitive as you add more types of panels. The extend directive is a simple way to reuse the rules written for one element, then add more for another:

.big-panel{

  @extend .panel;
  
  width: 150px;
  
  font-size: 2em;
}

# Conclusion
Tomorrow I will be moving on to React,so far I don't have any issues with what I been doing last week and this week.