---
Layout:
Title: "React"
Date: "2022 06 07"
---

# Introduction
I am still busy with react.

# Body
Inline styles, if you import styles from a stylesheet, it isn't much different at all. You apply a class to your JSX element using the className attribute, and apply styles to the class in your stylesheet. Another option is to apply inline styles, which are very common in ReactJS development.
JXS use the style attribute but you can't set the value to a string,instead you set it equal to a Javascript object
e.g  <div style={{color: "yellow", fontSize: 16}}>Mellow Yellow</div> . React will not accept the kebab-case keys in the style object,which is why we used camelCase for fontSize property.You can optionally set the font size to be a number,omitting the units px, or write it as 16px.

e.g class Colorful extends React.Component {

  render() {  

    return (

      <div style={{color: "red", fontSize : 72}}>Big Red</div>

    );

  }

};

Hyphenated words like font-size are invalid syntax for javascript object proterties,react uses camel case.All property value length units (like height, width, and fontSize) are assumed to be in px unless otherwise specified. If you want to use em, for example, you wrap the value and the units in quotes, like {fontSize: "4em"}. Other than the length values that default to px, all other property values should be wrapped in quotes.

If you have a large set of styles,you can assign a style object to a constant to keep a code organized :

// Change code above this line

const styles = {

color: "purple",

fontSize: 40,

border: "2px solid purple"

};

class Colorful extends React.Component {

  render() {

    // Change code below this line

    return (

      <div style={styles}>Style Me!</div>

    );

    // Change code above this line

  }
};

You can also write Javascript directly in your render methods,before the return statement  without inserting it inside of curly braces.This is because it is not yet the JXS code.If you want to use a variable later in the JSX code inside the return statement you place the variable name inside curly braces.

e.g const inputStyle = {

  width: 235,

  margin: 5

};

class MagicEightBall extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {

    super(props);

    this.state = {

      userInput: '',

      randomIndex: ''

    };

    this.ask = this.ask.bind(this);

    this.handleChange = this.handleChange.bind(this);

  }

  ask() {

    if (this.state.userInput) {

      this.setState({

        randomIndex: Math.floor(Math.random() * 20),

        userInput: ''

      });

    }

  }

  handleChange(event) {

    this.setState({

      userInput: event.target.value

    });

  }

  render() {

    const possibleAnswers = [
        
      'It is certain',
      'It is decidedly so',
      'Without a doubt',
      'Yes, definitely',
      'You may rely on it',
      'As I see it, yes',
      'Outlook good',
      'Yes',
      'Signs point to yes',
      'Reply hazy try again',
      'Ask again later',
      'Better not tell you now',
      'Cannot predict now',
      'Concentrate and ask again',
      "Don't count on it",
      'My reply is no',
      'My sources say no',
      'Most likely',
      'Outlook not so good',
      'Very doubtful'
    ];

    const answer = possibleAnswers[this.state.randomIndex]; // Change this line

    return (

      <div>

        <input
        
          type='text'

          value={this.state.userInput}

          onChange={this.handleChange}
          
          style={inputStyle}
        />

        <br />

        <button onClick={this.ask}>Ask the Magic Eight Ball!</button>

        <br />

        `<h3>Answer:</h3>`

        `<p>
          {/* Change code below this line */}
        {answer}
          {/* Change code above this line */}
        </p>`

      </div>

    );

  }

}

Another way of using javascript to control your rendered view is to tie the elements that are rendered to a condition. When the condition is true, one view renders. When it's false, it's a different view. You can do this with a standard if/else statement in the render() method of a React component.

e.g class MyComponent extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {

    super(props);

    this.state = {

      display: true

    }

    this.toggleDisplay = this.toggleDisplay.bind(this);

  }

  toggleDisplay() {

    this.setState((state) => ({

      display: !state.display

    }));

  }

  render() {

    // Change code below this line

 if(this.state.display){

    return (

       <div>

         <button onClick={this.toggleDisplay}>Toggle Display</button>

         `<h1>Displayed!</h1>`

       </div>

        );

 } else {

      return (

        <div>

           <button onClick={this.toggleDisplay}>Toggle Display</button>

         </div>

      );

    }   

  } 

};

Imagine that you are tracking several conditions in a component and you want different elements to render depending on each of these conditions. If you write a lot of else if statements to return slightly different UIs, you may repeat code which leaves room for error. Instead, you can use the && logical operator to perform conditional logic in a more concise way. This is possible because you want to check if a condition is true, and if it is, return some markup.For an example : {condition && <p>markup</p>} . If the condition is true, the markup will be returned. If the condition is false, the operation will immediately return false after evaluating the condition and return nothing. 

e.g class MyComponent extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {

    super(props);

    this.state = {

      display: true

    }

    this.toggleDisplay = this.toggleDisplay.bind(this);
    
  }

  toggleDisplay() {

    this.setState(state => ({

      display: !state.display

    }));

  }
  render() {

    // Change code below this line

    return (

       <div>

         <button onClick={this.toggleDisplay}>Toggle Display</button>

         {this.state.display && `<h1>Displayed!</h1>`}

       </div>

    );
  }
};


# Conclusion
I have 7 challenges that I am left with to finish with react.