---
Layout:
Title: "Redux"
Date: "2022 06 21"
---

# Introduction
Today I was busy with Redux.

# Body
When the state of your app begins to grow more complex, it may be tempting to divide state into multiple pieces. Instead, remember the first principle of Redux: all app state is held in a single state object in the store. Therefore, Redux provides reducer composition as a solution for a complex state model. You define multiple reducers to handle different pieces of your application's state, then compose these reducers together into one root reducer. The root reducer is then passed into the Redux createStore() method.In order to let us combine multiple reducers together, Redux provides the combineReducers() method. This method accepts an object as an argument in which you define properties which associate keys to specific reducer functions. The name you give to the keys will be used by Redux as the name for the associated piece of state.Typically, it is a good practice to create a reducer for each piece of application state when they are distinct or unique in some way.

e.g const INCREMENT = 'INCREMENT';

const DECREMENT = 'DECREMENT';

const counterReducer = (state = 0, action) => {

  switch(action.type) {

    case INCREMENT:

      return state + 1;

    case DECREMENT:

      return state - 1;

    default:

      return state;

  }
};

const LOGIN = 'LOGIN';

const LOGOUT = 'LOGOUT';

const authReducer = (state = {authenticated: false}, action) => {

  switch(action.type) {

    case LOGIN:

      return {

        authenticated: true

      }

    case LOGOUT:

      return {

        authenticated: false

      }

    default:

      return state;

  }

};

// Defie the root reducer here

const rootReducer = Redux.combineReducers({

  count:counterReducer,

  auth: authReducer

}); 

// Define the root reducer here

const store = Redux.createStore(rootReducer);

When dispatching  actions you can also send specific data along with your actions.This is very common because actions usually originate from some user interaction and tend to carry some data with them.The Redux store often needs to know about this data.

const ADD_NOTE = 'ADD_NOTE';

const notesReducer = (state = 'Initial State', action) => {

  switch(action.type) {

    // Change code below this line

 case ADD_NOTE:
 
      return action.text;

    // Change code above this line

    default:

      return state;

  }

};

const addNoteText = (note) => {

  // Change code below this line

 return {

    type: ADD_NOTE,

    text: note

  };

  // Change code above this line

};

const store = Redux.createStore(notesReducer);

console.log(store.getState());

store.dispatch(addNoteText('Hello!'));

console.log(store.getState());


# Conclusion
I am currently struggling with redux which is why I am taking long to finish.I do have a clue of what is redux is about but I can't say I realy understand.
