---
Layout:
Title: "React"
Date: "2022 04 22"
---

# Introduction
Today I was busy with React

# Body
React is an Open Source view library created and maintained by Facebook. It's a great tool to render the User Interface (UI) of modern web applications.

React uses a syntax extension of JavaScript called JSX that allows you to write HTML directly within JavaScript. This has several benefits. It lets you use the full programmatic power of JavaScript within HTML, and helps to keep your code readable. For the most part, JSX is similar to the HTML.JSX is a syntactic extension of javascript,we can write javascript directly within JSX. To do this, you simply include the code you want to be treated as JavaScript within curly braces: { 'this is treated as JavaScript code' } . However, because JSX is not valid JavaScript, JSX code must be compiled into JavaScript. The transpiler Babel is a popular tool for this process. For your convenience, it's already added behind the scenes for these challenges. If you happen to write syntactically invalid JSX, you will see the first test in these challenges fail.

It's worth noting that under the hood the challenges are calling ReactDOM.render(JSX, document.getElementById('root')). This function call is what places your JSX into React's own lightweight representation of the DOM. React then uses snapshots of its own DOM to optimize updating only specific parts of the actual DOM.


Nested JSX is that it must return a single element.

This one parent element would wrap all of the other levels of nested elements.

For instance, several JSX elements written as siblings with no parent wrapper element will not transpile.

Here's an example:

Valid JSX:

`<div>
  <p>Paragraph One</p>
  <p>Paragraph Two</p>
  <p>Paragraph Three</p>
</div>`
Invalid JSX:

`<p>Paragraph One</p>
<p>Paragraph Two</p>
<p>Paragraph Three</p>`

Here is another example
Define a new constant JSX that renders a div which contains the following elements in order, An h1, a p, and an unordered list that contains three li items. You can include any text you want within each element:

const JSX = `<div>

<h1>Heading</h1>

<p>List</p>

<ul>

<li>milk</li>

<li>sugar</li>

<li>coffee</li>

</ul>

</div>`

In JSX we no longer use the word class to define html classes,this is because is a reversed word in Javascript.We are now going to use 'className' to define classes.

e.g const JSX = (

  `<div className="myDiv">
  
    <h1>Add a class to this div</h1>
    
  </div>`
  
);

Any JSX element can be written with a self-closing tag, and every element must be closed. The line-break tag, for example, must always be written as <br /> in order to be valid JSX that can be transpiled. A <div>, on the other hand, can be written as <div /> or <div></div>. The difference is that in the first syntax version there is no way to include anything in the <div />. You will see in later challenges that this syntax is useful when rendering React components.

e.g const JSX = (
`
  <div>
  
    <h2>Welcome to React!</h2> <br />
    
    <p>Be sure to close all tags!</p>
    
    <hr />
    
  </div>`
  
);


Components are the core of React. Everything in React is a component.There are two ways to create a React component. The first way is to use a JavaScript function. Defining a component in this way creates a stateless functional component. The concept of state in an application will be covered in later challenges. For now, think of a stateless component as one that can receive data and render it, but does not manage or track changes to that data.To create a component with a function, you simply write a JavaScript function that returns either JSX or null.React requires the function name to begin with capital letter

e.g const MyComponent = function() {

return (

 ` <div>component</div>`
)

}

React allows you to compose your UI from many separate, isolated components. This makes it easier to build and maintain complex user interfaces.

# Conclusion
For now I don't have a clear understanding of what react is about,still have more learning to do and hopefully as time goes everything will be clear. 