---
Layout:
Title: "Bootstrap"
Date: "2022 04 13"
---


# Conclusion
I am still busy with Front End Development Libraries (bootstrap).

# Body
Bootstrap uses a responsive 12-column grid system,which makes it easy to put elements into rows and specify each element's relative width. Most of Bootstrap's classes can be applied to a div element.Bootstrap has different column width attributes that it uses depending on how wide the user's screen is. For example, phones have narrow screens, and laptops have wider screens.
For example Bootstrap's col-md-* class. Here, md means medium, and * is a number specifying how many columns wide the element should be. In this case, the column width of an element on a medium-sized screen, such as a laptop, is being specified.
In the Cat Photo App that we're building, we'll use col-xs-*, where xs means extra small (like an extra-small mobile phone screen), and * is the number of columns specifying how many columns wide the element should be.

We can bootstrap's built-in styles instead of the custom styles we created earlier.

Inline span allows us to put several elements on the same line, we can also style different parts of the same line differently.
e.g `<p>Top 3 things cats <span class="text-danger">hate:</span></p>`

Font Awesome is a convenient library of icons. These icons can be webfonts or vector graphics. These icons are treated just like fonts. You can specify their size using pixels, and they will assume the font size of their parent HTML elements.We can add Font Awesome in our app by adding this code `<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://use.fontawesome.com/releases/v5.8.1/css/all.css" integrity="sha384-50oBUHEmvpQ+1lW4y57PTFmhCaXp0ML5d60M1M7uH2+nqUivzIebhndOJK28anvf" crossorigin="anonymous">` at the top of our html, i is commonly used for icons .We can add font awesome class to the i element to turn it into an icon  e.g `<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i>` .


Our radio buttons will be evenly spread out across the page, regardless of how wide the screen resolution is,we can use Bootstrap's col-xs-* classes on form elements.

We can also use bootstrap's col-xs-* class on our checkboxes too! This way, the checkboxes will be evenly spread out across the page, regardless of how wide the screen resolution is.

To add the fa-paper-plane Font Awesome icon by adding `<i class="fa fa-paper-plane"></i>` within our submit button element.

# Conclusion
Tomorrow I will do the remaining challenges on Bootstrap and move on to the next challenge.