---
Layout:
Title: "jQuery"
Date: "2022 04 14"
---

# Introduction
Today I was busy with the remaining challenges on bootstrap and I also started with jQuery.

# Body
Creating a Class to Target with jQuery Selectors.Not every class needs to have corresponding CSS. Sometimes we create classes just for the purpose of selecting these elements more easily using jQuery.

We can have both id and class on the same element (`<div class="well" id="center-well">`),but we can't use the same id's in different elements.We are able to use same class in different elements.

jQuery
jQuery is a JavaScript library designed to simplify HTML DOM tree traversal and manipulation, as well as event handling, CSS animation, and Ajax. It is a lightweight, "write less, do more", JavaScript library. The purpose of jQuery is to make it much easier to use JavaScript on your website. jQuery takes a lot of common tasks that require many lines of JavaScript code to accomplish, and wraps them into methods that you can call with a single line of code.

All jQuery functions start with a $,which are usually referred to as dollar sign operator.jQuery often selects an html element with a selector then does something to that element.

eg To make all of your button elements bounce. Just add this code inside your document ready function: `$("button").addClass("animated bounce");`

<script>

  $(document).ready(function() {
  
$("button").addClass("animated bounce")

  });
  
</script>

We also able to target the elements using classes.
eg `$(".text-primary").addClass("animated shake"); `.We can also target elements by their id attributes (`$("#target6").addClass("animated fadeOut");`).We can basically target elements by (type,class,id).It is possible to add multiple classes in a single .addClass() call

# Conclusion
For now I don't have any problems with what I am doing at the moment.