---
Layout:
Title: "javascript"
Date: "2022 03 04"
---

# Introduction
Today I was busy with ES6,presentation and also a tutorial.

# Body
Use the Rest Parameter with Function Parameters,rest parameters allows us to create a function that take a variable number of arguments.This arguments  are stored in an array that can be accessed later from inside the function.

Use the Spread Operator to Evaluate Arrays In-Place,spread operators allows us to expand arrays and other  expressions in places where multiple parameters or elements are expected . The syntax is three dots (...)  followed by an array.
e.g  const arr1 = ["JAN" , "FEB" , "MAR" , "APR" , "MAY"];
     let arr2;
     arr2 = [...arr1];

We also had a presentation for about an hour,presentation was based on different topics.The topic that touched me the most was regarding hackers.I learnt that there are  three types of hackers.Black hat hackers, they are the bad guys ,they hack for wrong reasons.White hat hackers ,they hack to protect companies from the black hat hackers.
Grey hat hackers,they grey hat hackers does both,they can hack the companies system just to prove that the system is not strong enough.By doing that company might end up employing them.
You can use VPN to guard against hackers and snoops on plublic networks. Vpn also hides your IP address,browsing activity and personal data on any wi-fi network

Some VPN providers require monthly fee , but there are some providers that offer a connection for free. You can setup your VPN by doing the following steps :
- Open your phone's Settings app.
-Tap Network & internet. VPN. If you can't find it, search for "VPN." If you still can't find  it, get help from your device manufacturer.
-Tap the VPN you want.
-Enter your username and password.
-Tap Connect. If you use a VPN app, the app opens.

We also had a tutorial based on functions .

# Conclusion
I am going to continue with ES6