---
Layout:
Title: "Redux"
Date: "2022 06 10"
---


# Introduction
Today I started with Redux.For now I am still trying to understand redux better because even though I managed to do few challenges I still don't feel like I understand what is happening

# Body
Redux is a state management framework that can be used with a number of different web technologies including react.In redux there is a single state object that is responsible for the entire state of your application.This means if you had a React app with ten components, and each component had its own local state, the entire state of your app would be defined by a single state object housed in the Redux store.The Redux store is the single source of truth when it comes to application state.Any time any piece of your app wants to update state, it must do so through the redux store.The unidirectional data flow makes it easier to track state management in your app.

e.g const store = Redux.createStore(reducer)

The Redux store object provides several methods that allow you to interact with it. For example, you can retrieve the current state held in the Redux store object with the getState() method.

e.g const store = Redux.createStore(

(state = 5) => state

);

const currentState = store.getState()

Since Redux is a state management framework, updating state is one of its core tasks. In Redux, all state updates are triggered by dispatching actions. An action is simply a JavaScript object that contains information about an action event that has occurred. The Redux store receives these action objects, then updates its state accordingly. Sometimes a Redux action also carries some data. For example, the action carries a username after a user logs in. While the data is optional, actions must carry a type property that specifies the 'type' of action that occurred.Think of Redux actions as messengers that deliver information about events happening in your app to the Redux store. The store then conducts the business of updating state based on the action that occurred.
e.g 
const action = {

  type: 'LOGIN'
  
};

dispatch method is what you use to dispatch actions to the Redux store. Calling store.dispatch() and passing the value returned from an action creator sends an action back to the store.Recall that action creators return an object with a type property that specifies the action that has occurred. Then the method dispatches an action object to the Redux store.

e.g const store = Redux.createStore(

  (state = {login: false}) => state

);

const loginAction = () => {

  return {

    type: 'LOGIN'

  }

};

// Dispatch the action here:

store.dispatch(loginAction());

or

store.dispatch({type: 'LOGIN'})

Today we also have a session with Carolyn regarding effective communication skills, wich was very helpful.

# Conclusion
I am going to continue with redux and also practise what I learnt from todays session.