---
Layout:
Title: "React"
Date: "2022 05 30"
---

# Introduction
Today I was busy with react

# Body
You can define methods for your component class. A class method typically needs to use the this keyword so it can access properties on the class (such as state and props) inside the scope of the method. There are a few ways to allow your class methods to access this.One common way is to explicitly bind this in the constructor so this becomes bound to the class methods when the component is initialized.

metimes you might need to know the previous state when updating the state. However, state updates may be asynchronous - this means React may batch multiple setState() calls into a single update. This means you can't rely on the previous value of this.state or this.props when calculating the next value. So, you should not use code like this:
this.setState({
  counter: this.state.counter + this.props.increment
});

Instead, you should pass setState a function that allows you to access state and props. Using a function with setState guarantees you are working with the most current values of state and props. This means that the above should be rewritten as:

this.setState((state, props) => ({
  counter: state.counter + props.increment
}));

We are also able to use a form without props if you need only the state :
this.setState(state => ({
  counter: state.counter + 1
}));
You have to wrap the object literal in parentheses, otherwise JavaScript thinks it's a block of code.

e.g 
class MyComponent extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {

    super(props);

    this.state = {

      visibility: false

    };

    // Change code below this line

this.toggleVisibility = this.toggleVisibility.bind(this);

    // Change code above this line

  }

  // Change code below this line

toggleVisibility() {

    this.setState(state => {

      if (state.visibility === true) {

         return { visibility: false };

       } else {

         return { visibility: true };

      }

    });

  }

  // Change code above this line

  render() {

    if (this.state.visibility) {

      return (

        <div>

          `<button onClick={this.toggleVisibility}>Click Me</button>`

          `<h1>Now you see me!</h1>`

        </div>

      );

    } else {

      return (

        <div>

          `<button onClick={this.toggleVisibility}>Click Me</button>`

        </div>

      );
    }
  }
}


# Conclusion
I will continue with react and the projects that I have.