---
Layout:
Title: "React"
Date: "2022 06 08"
---

# Introduction
Today I was busy with the remaining challenges on react

# Body
We also have the ternary operator,the ternary operator is often utilized as a shortcut for if/else statements in JavaScript.The ternary operator is often utilized as a shortcut for if/else statements in JavaScript.Ternary expressions can be an excellent alternative if you want to implement conditional logic within your JSX.A ternary operator has three parts, but you can combine several ternary expressions together.Here is a basic syntax: condition ? expressionIfTrue : expressionIfFalse;

The code editor has three constants defined within the CheckUserAge component's render() method. They are called buttonOne, buttonTwo, and buttonThree. Each of these is assigned a simple JSX expression representing a button element. First, initialize the state of CheckUserAge with input and userAge both set to values of an empty string.Once the component is rendering information to the page, users should have a way to interact with it. Within the component's return statement, set up a ternary expression that implements the following logic: when the page first loads, render the submit button, buttonOne, to the page. Then, when a user enters their age and clicks the button, render a different button based on the age. If a user enters a number less than 18, render buttonThree. If a user enters a number greater than or equal to 18, render buttonTwo:

const inputStyle = {

  width: 235,

  margin: 5

};

class CheckUserAge extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {

    super(props);

    // Change code below this line

  this.state={

    input:'',

    userAge:''

  }
    // Change code above this line

    this.submit = this.submit.bind(this);

    this.handleChange = this.handleChange.bind(this);

  }

  handleChange(e) {

    this.setState({

      input: e.target.value,

      userAge: ''

    });

  }

  submit() {

    this.setState(state => ({

      userAge: state.input

    }));

  }
  
  render() {

    const buttonOne = <button onClick={this.submit}>Submit</button>;

    const buttonTwo = <button>You May Enter</button>;

    const buttonThree = <button>You Shall Not Pass</button>;

    return (

      <div>

        `<h3>Enter Your Age to Continue</h3>`

        <input
          style={inputStyle}
          type='number'
          value={this.state.input}
          onChange={this.handleChange}
        />

        <br />

        {/* Change code below this line */}

        {

    this.state.userAge === ''

    ? buttonOne

    :this.state.userAge >= 18

    ?buttonTwo 

    :buttonThree

        }
        {/* Change code above this line */}

      </div>
    );
  }
}

props is another powerful feature that allows us to combine any or these concepts (if/else, &&, ternary) .Using props to conditionally render code is very common with React developers — that is, they use the value of a given prop to automatically make decisions about what to render.

e.g The code editor has two components that are partially defined for you: a parent called GameOfChance, and a child called Results. They are used to create a simple game where the user presses a button to see if they win or lose.First, you'll need a simple expression that randomly returns a different value every time it is run. You can use Math.random(). This method returns a value between 0 (inclusive) and 1 (exclusive) each time it is called. So for 50/50 odds, use Math.random() >= .5 in your expression. Statistically speaking, this expression will return true 50% of the time, and false the other 50%. In the render method, replace null with the above expression to complete the variable declaration.Now you have an expression that you can use to make a randomized decision in the code. Next you need to implement this. Render the Results component as a child of GameOfChance, and pass in expression as a prop called fiftyFifty. In the Results component, write a ternary expression to render the h1 element with the text You Win! or You Lose! based on the fiftyFifty prop that's being passed in from GameOfChance. Finally, make sure the handleClick() method is correctly counting each turn so the user knows how many times they've played. This also serves to let the user know the component has actually updated in case they win or lose twice in a row :

class Results extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {

    super(props);

  }
  render() {

    {/* Change code below this line */}

    return `<h1>{this.props.fiftyFifty ? "You Win!" : "You Lose!"}</h1>`;

    {/* Change code above this line */}

  }
}

class GameOfChance extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {

    super(props);

    this.state = {

      counter: 1

    };

    this.handleClick = this.handleClick.bind(this);

  }

  handleClick() {

    this.setState(prevState => {

      // Complete the return statement:

      return {

        counter: this.state.counter + 1

      }

    });

  }

  render() {

    const expression = Math.random() >= 0.5 ? true : false; // Change this line

    return (

      <div>

        <button onClick={this.handleClick}>Play Again</button>

        {/* Change code below this line */}

        <Results fiftyFifty={expression} />

        {/* Change code above this line */}

        <p>{'Turn: ' + this.state.counter}</p>

      </div>

    );
  }
}

# Conclusion
I struggled  bit towards the end so I will try and watch some youtube tutorials.