---
Layout:
Title: "React"
Date: "2022 05 09"
---


# Introduction
Today I was busy with react and did some practice on javascript methods 
 
# Body 
Today I went back to react,I have been busy with the atm project so I decided to start react from the beginning to ensure that I still remember what I have learnt before.

We can also define a React component is with the ES6 class syntax. In the following example, Kitten extends React.Component:

class Kitten extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {
  
    super(props);
    
  }

  render() {
  
    return (
    
      <h1>Hi</h1>
      
    );
  }
}

This creates an ES6 class Kitten which extends the React.Component class. So the Kitten class now has access to many useful React features, such as local state and lifecycle hooks. Don't worry if you aren't familiar with these terms yet, they will be covered in greater detail in later challenges. Also notice the Kitten class has a constructor defined within it that calls super(). It uses super() to call the constructor of the parent class, in this case React.Component. The constructor is a special method used during the initialization of objects that are created with the class keyword. It is best practice to call a component's constructor with super, and pass props to both. This makes sure the component is initialized properly. For now, know that it is standard for this code to be included.


We can compose multiple React components together.For an example if we are building an app and have created 3 components which are Navbar,Dashboard,Footer.To compose these components together we can create an App parent component which renders each of these three components as children.
return (

 <App>
 
  <Navbar />
  
  <Dashboard />
  
  <Footer />
  
 </App>
 
) 

Another example
n the code editor, there is a simple functional component called ChildComponent and a class component called ParentComponent. Compose the two together by rendering the ChildComponent within the ParentComponent. Make sure to close the ChildComponent tag with a forward slash.

answer : 
const ChildComponent = () => {

  return (
  
    <div>
    
      <p>I am the child</p>
      
    </div>
    
  );
};

class ParentComponent extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {
  
    super(props);
    
  }
  
  render() {
  
    return (
    
      <div>
      
        <h1>I am the parent</h1>
        
       <ChildComponent />   (answer)

      </div>
    );
  }
};

# Conclusion
Tomorrow I will be doing a revision on Responsive Web Design