---
Layout:
Title: "Redux"
Date: "2022 06 24"
---

# Introduction
Today I was busy with the remaining challenges on Redux.

# Body
Redux does not actively enforce state immutability in its store or reducers, that responsibility falls on the programmer. Fortunately, JavaScript (especially ES6) provides several useful tools you can use to enforce the immutability of your state, whether it is a string, number, array, or object. Note that strings and numbers are primitive values and are immutable by nature. In other words, 3 is always 3. You cannot change the value of the number 3. An array or object, however, is mutable. In practice, your state will probably consist of an array or object, as these are useful data structures for representing many types of information. For an example:

There is a store and reducer in the code editor for managing to-do items. Finish writing the ADD_TO_DO case in the reducer to append a new to-do to the state. There are a few ways to accomplish this with standard JavaScript or ES6. See if you can find a way to return a new array with the item from action.todo appended to the end.

const ADD_TO_DO = 'ADD_TO_DO';

// A list of strings representing tasks to do:

const todos = [

  'Go to the store',

  'Clean the house',

  'Cook dinner',

  'Learn to code',

];

const immutableReducer = (state = todos, action) => {

  switch(action.type) {

    case ADD_TO_DO: 

      // Don't mutate state here or the tests will fail

      return state.concat(action.todo)

    default:

      return state;

  }

};

const addToDo = (todo) => {

  return {

    type: ADD_TO_DO,

    todo

  }

}

const store = Redux.createStore(immutableReducer);

One solution from ES6 to help enforce state immutability in Redux is the spread operator: .... The spread operator has a variety of applications, one of which is well-suited to the previous challenge of producing a new array from an existing array.

e.g 
Use the spread operator to return a new copy of state when a to-do is added:

const immutableReducer = (state = ['Do not mutate state!'], action) => {

  switch(action.type) {

    case 'ADD_TO_DO':

      // Don't mutate state here or the tests will fail

      return [...state,action.todo]

    default:

      return state;

  }

};

const addToDo = (todo) => {

  return {

    type: 'ADD_TO_DO',

    todo

  }

}

const store = Redux.createStore(immutableReducer);


Removing an item from an array,you can use a spread operator to remove items from an array.Other useful JavaScript methods include slice() and concat().

e.g The reducer and action creator were modified to remove an item from an array based on the index of the item. Finish writing the reducer so a new state array is returned with the item at the specific index removed:

const immutableReducer = (state = [0,1,2,3,4,5], action) => {

  switch(action.type) {

    case 'REMOVE_ITEM':

      // Don't mutate state here or the tests will fail

      return [...state.slice(0, action.index),

           ...state.slice(action.index +1,state.length)]

    default:

      return state;

  }

};

const removeItem = (index) => {

  return {

    type: 'REMOVE_ITEM',

    index

  }
  
}

const store = Redux.createStore(immutableReducer);

There are ways to help enforce state immutability when state is an object, too.A useful tool for handling objects is the Object.assign() utility. Object.assign() takes a target object and source objects and maps properties from the source objects to the target object.Any matching properties are overwritten by properties in the source objects. This behavior is commonly used to make shallow copies of objects by passing an empty object as the first argument followed by the object(s) you want to copy.Here is an example: 

const newObject = Object.assign({}, obj1, obj2);

This creates newObject as a new object, which contains the properties that currently exist in obj1 and obj2.

const defaultState = {
  user: 'CamperBot',
  status: 'offline',
  friends: '732,982',
  community: 'freeCodeCamp'
};

const immutableReducer = (state = defaultState, action) => {

  switch(action.type) {

    case 'ONLINE':

      // Don't mutate state here or the tests will fail

      return Object.assign({},state,{status:"online"});

    default:

      return state;

  }

};

const wakeUp = () => {

  return {

    type: 'ONLINE'

  }

};

const store = Redux.createStore(immutableReducer);

This returns a new state object for actions with type ONLINE ,which set the status property to the string online.

I also did a codewars kata.Instructions:You are given a list of unique integers arr, and two integers a and b. Your task is to find out whether or not a and b appear consecutively in arr, and return a boolean value (True if a and b are consecutive, False otherwise).It is guaranteed that a and b are both present in arr.

function consecutive(arr, a, b) {

  for(let i = 0; i < arr.length; i++ ){

    if(arr[i] === a && arr[i + 1] === b){

      return true

    }

   else if(arr[i] === a && arr[i - 1] ===b){

    return true;

  }

  }

  return false;

  }

console.log(consecutive([1, 6, 9, -3, 4, -78, 0], -3, 4))

# Conclusion
Today I managed to finish the remaining challenges on Redux,so as from monday I will be moving on to React and redux.