---
Layout:
Title: "javascript"
Date: "2022 03 03"
---

# Introduction
Today I managed to finish Javascript basics and I started with ES6.I also had a Kata project.

# Body
ES6 is  newer version of Javascript that was introduced in 2015
Compare Scopes of the var and let Keywords,I learnt that when  you declare with  the var keyword it declares globally or locally if declared  inside the function.And when you declare with  let its scope is limited to that block,statement or expression.

Mutate an Array Declared with const, arrays declared with const keyword creates a read only refence to a value.

Prevent Object Mutation, Javascript prvides a function object.freeze that prevents data from mutation.If function Object.freeze is used the object can not be changed,any attempt of changing it will be rejected.
e.g   let obj = {
  name:"FreeCodeCamp",
  review:"Awesome"
};
Object.freeze(obj);
obj.review = "bad";
obj.newProp = "Test";
console.log(obj);   , both obj.review and obj.newProp assignement will result in errors.

Use Arrow Functions to Write Concise Anonymous Functions,in Javascript we are able to create inline functions, which we don't need to name because we do not reuse them anywhere else.
In ES6 we have arrow function syntax that we use instead of writting anonymous functions
e.g  const myFunc = () => {
  const myVar = "value";
  return myVar;
} . We also able to write arrow functions with parameters like this : const doubler = (item) => item * 2;
doubler(4);

We also have default parameters,the parameter name will receive a default value  when you do not provide a value for it 
e.g const greeting = (name = "Anonymous") => "Hello " + name;

console.log(greeting("John"));
console.log(greeting());

I also had a project:

create a function that checks if the total number Of workers is divisible by groupOne or groupTwo


 Example 

//if the total number of workers is 8 and groupOne have 10 people and groupTwo have 4 people, the answer is false because 8 is not divisible by 10 but is divisible by 4
//if total number of workers is 10 and groupOne have 5 people and groupTwo have 2 people the answer is true because 10 is divisible by 5 and 2;



const isTotalNumberOfworkersDivisible = (number, groupOne, groupTwo) => {



}

//Don't forget to call your function.
Here is a link for my Kata Project : https://github.com/NosiphiwoB/Kata/blob/main/visible.js


# Conclusion
So far I don't have any problems with what I've learnt today.I will continue with ES6 and typing club.

