---
Layout:
Title: " SQL Tables"
Date: "2023 03 02"
---

# Introduction
This week I was busy with SQL Tables.I learnt the sql commands,creating tables, and connecting tables. 

# Body
Sql is the standard language that deals with Relational Databases.

We have different commands that we use in Sql, below I have a list of few commands that I have used this week :

  1> CREATE - We use the create command to create a database or a table.

    e.g CREATE DATABASE student-portal;

     -This will create a database named student-portal.


  2>Drop - We use the drop command to delete an existing database or table.
  
    e.g DROP DATABASE student-portal;

     -This will delete the database named student-portal.


  3>SELECT - We use select command to fetch from a table.

    e.g SELECT column1, column2

        FROM table-name;

      -This will fetch column1 and column2 data from the table.


  4>INSERT ->Creates a record.

    e.g INSERT INTO table_name (column1, column2, column3)

      VALUES (value1, value2, value3); 

      -This will return a table with 3 columns and their respective values.


We were given task to create two tables and join them. This is how I created and joined the tables:

--Table 1

CREATE TABLE user(

  ID int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,

  StudentID VARCHAR(255) DEFAULT (uuid()),

  Name VARCHAR(255),

  Email VARCHAR(255),

  Password VARCHAR(255)

);



--values

INSERT INTO user (name, email, password)

VALUES ('Nox', 'nox@gmail.com', 'nox123'),

  ("Anathi", "ana@gmail.com", 'ana123'),

  ("Vusimuzi", "vusi@gmail.com", "vusi123");



--Table 2

CREATE TABLE subs(

  ID int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,

  Name VARCHAR(255)

);



--Subjects

Insert into subs(Name)

values ('Math'),

  ('English'),

  ('Physics'),

  ('History');



--Table 3

CREATE TABLE UserSubjects(

  ID INT NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,

  StudentID INT,

  subsID INT,

  FOREIGN KEY(StudentID) REFERENCES user(ID),

  FOREIGN KEY(subsID) REFERENCES subs(ID)

);



--Insert StudentID and SubsID

Insert into UserSubjects(StudentID, subsID)

values (3, 3),

  (1, 4),

  (2, 1);



--joining tables

SELECT user.ID,

  user.Name,

  subs.Name

FROM user

  INNER JOIN subs ON user.ID = subs.ID;



--joining all tables using UserSubjects table

select

  user.StudentID as student_id,

  user.Name as student,

  subs.Name as subject

from UserSubjects

  INNER JOIN user ON user.ID = UserSubjects.StudentID

  INNER JOIN subs ON subs.ID = UserSubjects.subsId;


# Conclusion
I was struggling with connecting tables and I got help from Mark and Mondli. For now I am going to continue with Sql.